>>REGINA MEREDITH:
In common astrology,
we often hear about
the return of Saturn,
which brings challenges
into our life.
Why is Saturn known as
the prince of darkness?
Well, according to author Troy
McLachlan, once upon a time,
Saturn meant abundance on Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is a subject that
goes very deep, very vast,
out into the cosmology itself.
And you say it's more of
an intuitive investigation
than an academic or
intellectual investigation.
Set that up for us.
What did you mean by that?
>>TROY MCLACHLAN: Well,
what I was attempting to do
was create a visual
introduction into a topic that
looks at Saturn
worship as basically
behind the origin of a
malevolent culture that
exists in the world today.
It was designed to
be very, very low
level to give people a basic
broad stroke, a brush stroke
picture of how
Saturn theory works
and linking that into a
lot of the standard sort
of conspiracy, as some people
call it, ideas out there.
I particularly wanted
to link Saturn theory,
this new cosmology, to the--
basically the central banking
model of international finance.
In terms of what we
find in Saturn theory,
the archetypes, the
symbols that have come down
through mythology, linked
back to their cosmology,
are heavily influencing
a lot of what
we see in the corporate
models, the central banking
models, the debt-based
finance system as it stands.
But I wanted to be-- it
was such a huge scope.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is.
>>MCLACHLAN: You're literally
going from origins, almost
human origins, right
to the modern day.
And I just wanted to give
a broad outline for people
to follow.
And when I did the
website, it was
to be done mostly as a visual
experience as much as I could.
>>REGINA: It's very
well done visually.
You have great artwork.
But also, it's a
wonderful tutorial.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, the subject
matter is so out there,
so different from
mainstream thinking, that
without the visual
aids-- and I think
this is what's happened with the
hardcore researchers, the elder
statesman of Saturn theory,
going back to Immanuel
Velikovsky himself,
through guys like Talbott
and Cardona-- some
of their stuff,
it takes a huge time
investment to understand that.
>>REGINA: Oh, you
compressed it beautifully.
And you're right.
A picture is worth 1,000 words.
You go away remembering
those images.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, that
was basically the aim.
And of course, what
those guys don't do--
and I didn't want
to sort of-- I've
never really been in contact
with them or anything
along the lines of
discussions or anything.
I just absorbed what
they had to say.
But what I wanted
to do was marry that
into how that affects our
culture, our civilization
today, basically,
world cultures today
as they are seen
to the modern eye.
>>REGINA: And the one thing--
We've done a couple
other interviews
around the subject
of money, including
one here in London,
which is interesting.
It's more a vibrational
look at archetypes
and how we each relate to them.
And the saying she
kept mentioning
was that the way
we are with money
is the way we are
with our lives.
So it's so symbolically,
energetically
representative of the levels of
fear, confidence, creativity,
whatever it is that each of
us among humanity expresses.
>>MCLACHLAN: Sure.
Sure.
Well, one of the
key things that I
found when I was looking
into Saturn theory
was that-- the idea
of the god Saturn
is that he's the god of time
as much as any other aspect.
And what time is is time
is the first measure.
Once you are able to measure
the progress of time--
>>REGINA: Oh, and we'll get to
that and how that started, too.
Yes, go ahead.
>>MCLACHLAN: But
that whole concept
of measurements,
weights and measures,
was so important in the
Saturn side of things.
And money is actually probably
the most important measure
that we don't understand is a
measure in our society today.
We don't understand it
measures our productivity,
it measures our work, it
measures the price of our work.
And when that's manipulated--
>>REGINA: Yes.
When it's manipulated,
it measures the quality
of our internal
experience of life.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
That's the way it's become,
for sure, in the modern day.
And a fair system-- to
quote a biblical concept,
"You shall have no diverse
weights and measures."
This is a universal thing.
You've got to have fair
measures between all the strata
of society so everybody knows
what they're dealing with when
they interact with each other.
And that is possibly the
most distorted element
that has been born out of
what I call the Saturn death
culture that exists
in the world today.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's
certainly not life-giving.
We'll say that.
Let's go back.
Let's start going back in
terms of our cosmology.
And start explaining
to us what Saturn once
was to the Earth in
relationship to it.
And then take your
time explaining,
under its influence, under even
the light factors, what life
on Earth was like, what could
develop under that, what
our plant life was
like, all of it.
You have the stage.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, in "Saturn
Death Cult," the website,
the ebook I put
out, as I said, it
was very visual, because
what you're doing
is you're wrenching
people out of what seems
to be almost an accepted idea
of how our solar system formed.
And that's the
uniformitarian idea,
that things have really
changed slowly but surely
over a 4 billion-year period.
What Saturn theory does is
it turns that mainstream
view on its head,
and it basically
says that the current
solar system is essentially
a system that is born
of captured planets
around the sun, Saturn being
the most recent captured
celestial body into
orbit around the sun.
So you have a fruit salad
idea of the solar system,
where objects are
arriving formed,
they catastrophically rearrange
into what we see today.
And this is so at odds with
the uniformitarian science,
with the discretion model,
that for many people
it's beyond comprehension.
How can you be-- how can that be
so wrong in mainstream science?
And we're presenting
this what seems
to be absurd idea of planets
that supposedly formed here
over billions of years being
captured fairly recently.
The scary thing about the topic
is that when we say recently,
we say, within human memory.
In other words, this
catastrophic rearrangement
of the planets, this capture,
particularly of Saturn,
took place within
recorded human history.
And that is what
mythology represents.
And then Saturn theory,
we claim that mythology
can be interpreted,
basically, as a record
of actual celestial
events witnessed,
rather than the madhouse
of imaginative thinking
that modern scholarship
has created.
>>REGINA: Well, and also,
that would make sense
as you're seeing repeated
things around the planet
through various aboriginal
peoples and beyond.
So it's consistent imagery.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, comparative
mythology is the key to this.
You have a problem here
with the mainstream idea.
They refuse to believe
the idea that there
was a worldwide civilization in
the past that possibly spread
similar types of symbols, ideas,
archetypes through mythology.
>>REGINA: And various,
very ancient iterations
of ourselves, where we
had high intelligence,
ability to travel, and so forth.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
And we can definitely
go down that line
in terms of the
electrostatic environment
that Saturn produced
in these times,
because that's an area a lot of
people find very interesting.
>>REGINA: I find it
interesting, and I
would like you to go into that.
So where do we start, then?
This is such a huge topic.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
it starts, really,
with comparative mythology,
because what we have to look at
is you've got similar archetypes
all the way through mythology.
And there are two explanations.
Either they all
saw the same thing
from different
parts of the world
before they came into
contact with each other,
or they were advised of
this by a missionary type
program that went
around the world.
I would argue that there's
actually an element of both,
that the event was observed
worldwide and so on,
and that the archetypes
were installed,
these catastrophic events
so scarred the psyche
of the human species that they--
that there are-- that these
archetypes that
they all have can
be traced back to a single root.
And eventually, at
a period of time
in the past that
has been lost, this
was consolidated by the peoples
meeting up through the world
as they came into--
it actually formed
a connection of
something that existed.
>>REGINA: And might
there have also
been a type of
collective memory?
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes,
most definitely.
This is what I
mean by the scarred
psyche, a collective
memory that is passed down.
And you know, when
you're talking
about these kinds of
catastrophic events,
what we're essentially
talking about is
the one big archetype, which
is called a doomsday scenario,
or anxiety.
Doomsday anxiety exists all
over, throughout cultures.
It's what can be manipulated.
This is at the heart of
what is a Saturn Death Cult
sort of idea, that
there are people
who've learned to
manipulate this anxiety.
Once we realize that these
are based on natural events,
and once, from our position
in the future, looking back,
we can apply a scientific
sort of understanding
of what transpired for
the people at the time,
they only had their-- to
use that word-- intuitive
understanding to record
events and to pass that down
in posterity in various
forms to influence
what was there as a
collective memory.
And this is the
beginning of priesthoods
as far as these events happen.
The key, in terms of
the doomsday anxiety
as an archetype, is
what caused the anxiety.
And what is common to
virtually all cultures
throughout the
world is this idea
that something was happening
in the celestial north,
above the Earth.
They pinpoint that region
of the world in mythology
as an area where the primordial
god, the initiator of doomsday,
came from.
They all have this.
They all have a version of this.
The Chinese have the great
yellow emperor set up there.
Mesoamerican societies
have oodles of this stuff.
And so what is
consistent is this idea
of a stationary
force, a light, that
bursts forth after
a period of darkness
and basically kicks off
the whole ball of what
becomes human civilization
in its various forms.
But they all point to that area.
The Nordics, we
all know that they
point to north as their idea of
Valhalla and so on like that.
The most sacred part
of the Indus and so on
is the part that actually
flows on a north-south line.
What's happened,
unfortunately, is
that because there was
this obsession in mythology
with this northern area, this
celestial northern region,
which is where the pole
star can be seen today,
what has happened is that
scholars have looked at this,
and they've seen this
sort of insistence
on this power, this light, that
has come from there, the star,
basically, the sun, that once
shone up from those areas.
They look there today,
and there's nothing there.
It doesn't match what we see.
So the assumption
is that the ancients
saw a very, very different sky--
>>REGINA: Than our
east-west orientation
toward the sun, yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: --to
what we have today.
And because we don't
see that same sky,
we assume they're
somehow making it up,
that this is some kind of vast
imaginary collective psychosis
that has come down through time.
Saturn's theory
actually says, no,
that in fact that was the planet
Saturn at a period in Earth's
past that actually
resided in that position
in the Earth's celestial north,
that it burst into light,
it brought light
into the world, it
initiated what
became a golden age.
And then, when it was
dislodged by the appearance
of a-- a before absent
sun and then a distant sun
that came into it.
It was dislodged from that
position catastrophically.
That's your doomsday thing.
And what that does is it-- for--
what I write in "Saturn Death
Cult," while there is a whole
cosmology that just looks
at the science of this and looks
at how mythology records this
and what we can find in our
own scientific endeavors
to match up with that, what
I've done in "Saturn Death Cult"
is I've identified an
area of research that
pinpoints a group of people,
a small elite, that basically
have-- want to get back
to that golden age idea.
>>REGINA: OK.
I'm going to have
you back up a bit,
and I'm going to have you
give some visual descriptions,
because this was considered,
what, a brown dwarf star?
At one time, you're saying,
this was, effectively,
the light source for the planet?
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
In Saturn theory,
there is debate.
In all honesty, I
have to point out
that there are people who
have different ideas about how
Saturn got where it was in terms
of its relationship to Earth.
>>REGINA: The way you're
depicting it there,
it's almost in a binary
rotational system
with the Earth.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
Basically, the-- what
we can all agree on
is that Earth was a satellite
of Saturn at some point,
when Saturn was what
is called-- what
we know to be now
a sub-brown dwarf.
This is a-- in
mainstream thinking,
a sub-brown dwarf is a star
that hasn't gone main sequence,
it doesn't have enough mass
to collapse in on itself
and start-- initiate what
mainstream science says
is what makes stars.
However, it is an object
that sheds its own light.
It has its own
radiation and so on.
magnetosphere, which
is these-- in
mainstream science,
it's the radiation belts that
we find around these objects.
And it's a-- in its own
right, it is a star, as such.
Earth, we're saying
it was a satellite
of that star, which was
then captured by the sun.
>>REGINA: OK.
So there is a plasma
sheath part of this story.
There is the kind of light
that was cast off from Saturn
in your depiction of it
and in the artwork, which
is fascinating.
I think you call it--
was it purple dawn?
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so let's talk
about the nature of the light,
the nature of the life,
and the life forms
on the planet that
could even exist,
and the nature of what that
plasma supplied the planet,
and the energetics
that would have allowed
for a certain type of
foliage to even occur.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes, absolutely.
To do that, for people who--
so we don't lose people
at this stage, this
is where we invoke
what we call the
electric universe model.
This is a paradigm of
scientific understanding
that rejects the gravity-only
of mainstream science,
that the universe is
controlled entirely by gravity.
We reject black holes,
dark matter, dark energy,
that sort of thing.
And we replace it
with that 95% that's
missing in the calculations
of the gravity-driven model,
we replace it with plasma
as the predominant material
in the universe.
Plasma is a great
conductor of electricity.
It is the electromagnetic,
the electrostatic properties
that are conducted through
plasma that really provide
the forces that we are invoking
to explain what happens when
you get a sub-brown
dwarf drifting
into proximity with
a main sequence star.
Of course, this is so at
odds with mainstream science
that a lot of people
get lost at this point.
>>REGINA: But
let's talk about it
even from a mythological
point of view
and from other esoteric
points of view.
There was a time when
this planet was not
bathed in the amount
of light it's in now.
>>MCLACHLAN: Correct,
as far as we understand.
And certainly from a
mythological record,
there's a universal
understanding
of a primordial darkness,
a time-- indeterminate time
into the past.
It shattered when Saturn, in
whatever culture identified
Saturn, bursts into light.
But prior to that time, to use
something that a lot of people
are very familiar with,
the biblical reference,
the spirit of the Lord hovered
on the celestial ocean,
so to speak, and
so on, in darkness,
before the "Let there
be light" moment that's
what is described.
A lot of cultures talk of this.
And what you have is, if you've
got a terrestrial planet that
is a satellite of
a sub-brown dwarf,
in the electric universe
model, what happens
is that the
electrical properties
of the sub-brown dwarf
create this bubble that
encases the core of
the sub-brown dwarf.
But between the bubble and the
core, the skin of the bubble,
if you could imagine
that, there's
a space, an area there,
where terrestrial planets
can actually exist.
If we take Jupiter as a former
possible sub-brown dwarf star
or something that is a size--
most sub-brown dwarf stars
are about the size of Jupiter.
It's down to their
mass rather than
their volume that
differentiates them.
But if you look at the four
terrestrial moons of Jupiter,
they all exist inside this
radiation, basically a globe
that exists around Jupiter.
That is what we
call plasmosphere
in the electric universe model.
We know it exists with Jupiter.
We know it has a profound
influence on Jupiter's moons,
as well.
And what we're saying is
that with sub-brown dwarfs,
the same thing will happen.
And when you view
them from outside,
you see the bubble, because
that plasma sheath, as it's
called in the electric
universe model,
is formed as a protective
layer, electrical layer,
against the greater
galactic electrical field.
What that does is it
creates an opaque layer.
So you can't see in.
You just see what seems
like a solid, cloudy body.
But anything trapped between
that bubble and the core
or whatever cannot see out.
No light gets into it.
No light passes through
at that particular time.
There is, however, a dull glow.
There is enough light
frequencies given off
by such an object that
if you existed in there,
not only would you
sense a dull glow,
but it would be a
uniform dispersion.
>>REGINA: 24/7, except
there is no 24/7 yet.
>>MCLACHLAN: The whole thing.
That's right.
And, of course, what this does--
if you can imagine somebody,
you know, an astronaut
landed on such a satellite,
or as we're postulating,
ancient humans existing
in this environment when
Earth was trapped in there,
you have nothing
to give you time.
There is nothing to allow
you to calculate time
in any way whatsoever,
certainly not
beyond anything that is local.
>>REGINA: Not cyclically.
Absolutely.
>>MCLACHLAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Well,
when I was reading
through this part, of course,
my first question was, yes,
but you don't have
photosynthesis,
you don't have enough
light for that, so how do
you even have plant
life on the planet
to sustain these animals
and these early humans?
So please.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, the
photosynthesis thing
has been a contention
for a lot of people
who are critics of
this particular theory.
What we're saying is
that the sub-brown
dwarf-- we now know
sub-brown dwarfs give off
certain light frequencies
that do include infrared, do
include ultraviolet.
But basically, their
light frequency
is the reddish to blue
sort of side of things.
If you're on a
terrestrial body that
has a magnetosphere--
that's what our Earth has
that sort of protects us from
radiation-- that magnetosphere
and also its atmosphere
will produce,
basically, a purplish hue.
And it's a dull
glow that is there.
There is enough
of that radiation
coming from a sub-brown
dwarf to provide
that kind of illumination.
>>REGINA: So we'd have more
reddish types of plant life.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes,
because when it
comes to plants, what
we know about plants
is that they have a dormant
gene called retinol in them.
And retinol is the-- it's
the parts of the plant that
helps-- that loves to suck
in infrared to blue light
spectrums and so on like that.
It's dormant at the
moment, because when
the plants-- the chlorophyll
that we see in them now
is really a reflective
device to regulate
the amount of ultraviolet
light that hits the plant.
If you're not in a high
ultraviolet light environment,
you actually want
to attract infrared,
because it's the infrared
medium and so on that
really is what the plant craves.
That's why all our
stuff is green today.
It's actually saying
too much ultraviolet.
It's actually an
indication that, in terms
of the evolutionary model,
it's an indication that plants
weren't originally
designed for this,
that they've had to go
into the chlorophyll--
>>REGINA: Yes, all things adapt.
>>MCLACHLAN: --sort of thing.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>MCLACHLAN: It's an adaptation.
It's a later adaptation,
because retinol
is by far the
older dormant gene.
And this dormancy--
and we can see this,
because if I can give
somebody an illustration,
if you go to a certain
depth in the oceans--
>>REGINA: I was just
thinking the same.
>>MCLACHLAN: --you are starting
to get the kind of environment
that we're talking about on
a terrestrial body, trapped.
>>REGINA: The brownish
and reddish plant life
in the ocean, yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
All that seaweed
and so on like that.
As you get closer up, you
get your green seaweeds,
as you get closer
to the surface.
This shows how plants behave.
>>REGINA: And you are in
that twilight when you're
underwater, until you
go down far enough
and you're in no light.
>>MCLACHLAN: Honestly, if
somebody really wanted to go
and experience what it might
have been like to get an idea
of the thing--
>>REGINA: Dive.
>>MCLACHLAN: --dive down into
those oceans, and you'll get--
>>REGINA: That was
what was striking me
as I was looking at these
pictures and so forth.
So now, because we've got
so much ground to cover,
I just wanted to
get into that a bit,
about what life was like
at that time, perhaps.
And so now, we start
moving forward.
What happened to Saturn?
Why was it, so to
speak, banished?
And the sun is now
the predominant theme.
And let's talk about the
Silver Age, the Golden Age,
and just lead us into
the body of the subject
we'll be discussing.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, when you're
on the planet in relation
to a star like
Saturn at the time,
the first big noticeable
thing of there
is you have different
gravity, according
to the electric universe model.
A co-author of mine on a
recent book that I've done
made his name in
basically showing
that the massive fauna that
we've seen in the past,
from mammoths going back to the
dinosaurs, this sort of thing
couldn't have existed in the
gravity that we have today.
They simply would collapse.
>>REGINA: Well,
it's interesting,
because there are giants
that are found, too,
that have been found with
bodies, perhaps, between 25
and 35 feet tall with much
more porous bone density.
I've even held one of the
occipital bones of one
of these.
It's much more porous than ours.
>>MCLACHLAN: It's a big problem
particularly for the dinosaur
they study, because
they find him
even bigger and
bigger and bigger.
It's just kind of ridiculous.
>>REGINA: And giant things
that were flying at the time
without jet propulsion.
>>MCLACHLAN: We know that when
the blue whale beaches itself,
it collapses under
its own weight.
We know that they had--
10 million years ago,
science tells us that they
had giant boa-like snakes.
They call them titanic boas.
They had to have been aquatic,
because they would have just
collapsed under their own
weight and suffocated.
>>REGINA: Unless there
were a difference
in the external or ambient
environment or gravity.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, that's right.
And what we're saying is that
the electrostatic relationship
between a sub-brown dwarf and
a terrestrial planet like Earth
will actually
change the gravity;
you'll get a different gravity.
Now, to answer your question,
when you-- in a system
like this, you have no
idea what's out there,
you only have this dull thing
that doesn't move at the top,
because either you're in a phase
lock situation with the star,
like the moon is with the Earth,
or you're in what we propagate,
which is an axial-aligned
polar configuration.
But in any case--
>>REGINA: It's a
very static reality.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
There's just nothing
there to grasp hold of.
>>REGINA: To gauge anything by.
>>MCLACHLAN:
Everything is nebulous
and changing all the time.
There's no continuity.
There's no regulation.
>>REGINA: So now
let's talk about what
happens to Saturn when the
sun takes its position.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
that plasma bubble
that we're talking
about, the sun has one.
It's called the heliosphere.
And it's massive in comparison
to a sub-brown dwarf's.
And when you get
these two bubbles that
start to drift
towards each other,
you're essentially going to
get an electrical reaction,
because they're electrically
driven, according
to the electric universe model.
The problem here for Saturn
is that it is positively
charged to Earth in
the electric sense,
but it's negatively
charged to the sun.
The sun is a lot more powerful.
And when its electrical field--
because that's all the plasma
sheath actually is-- touches
with the electrical field
of a larger object--
the sun, in this case--
you get a short-circuiting.
Now, that stuff that we
were talking about before,
plasma, it exists in currents
between celestial bodies.
They're called
Birkeland currents.
They were discovered over
100 years ago now by--
>>REGINA: And you illustrate
this in the book, as well,
and the way ancients
may have depicted it,
what they were actually
trying to show us
about the cosmology of the day.
It's brilliant.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
And to jump to that, Jacob's
Ladder, the primordial tree
of life, these chains or spears
that go up into the heaven,
the stairway to heaven-- all
these archetypes are linked
to this grand cosmic current
that, when Saturn is excited
electrically, will go from
virtually invisible, which we
call dark mode, it'll
go into glow mode.
And when it really gets hit by
a powerful electrical source--
>>REGINA: Like the heliosphere.
>>MCLACHLAN: --like
the heliosphere,
it'll go into arc mode.
Now, that's quite an
amazing thing to see,
and it would be probably
the most dangerous.
>>REGINA: Well, and
you show that you
have this depiction of the
people of the day-- what?
Blinded by the light.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
that's the thing.
What we're talking about here
is that in coming into contact
with the heliosphere of the
sun, Saturn virtually goes nova.
Now, tying it back
to your mythology,
this is the "Let
there be light" moment
that most cultures
actually talk about.
It's a sudden bursting
forth of Saturn's power,
because from the
Earth's perspective,
they don't know it's
the sun doing this.
All that happens to them is
that suddenly this dull object--
>>REGINA: Boom.
Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: --just bursts forth
in absolute brilliant light
and proceeds to bathe
in a radiance that
has never been seen before.
>>REGINA: I can't imagine
that people could have even--
>>MCLACHLAN: Survived it.
>>REGINA: --survived it.
>>MCLACHLAN: Catastrophic,
beyond belief.
>>REGINA: And animals, yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: And yet, it seems
to have triggered within humans
a sudden realization--
hey, I can see things
a little bit differently now.
>>REGINA: OK, now we're
going to jump forward.
Now they're seeing
things differently.
Now, at what point are we now
under the influence of the sun?
Saturn's out there,
but Saturn is still--
the remnant of Saturn,
the Silver and Golden age,
are still affecting
the psychology
and the desires of the people.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
that Birkeland
current that is connected
between Earth and Saturn,
it's basically an
umbilical cord.
And that's been
put under strain.
It's basically being
overloaded, if you
can put it in pure
electrical terms.
And the result is is that
Saturn is really under stress.
It looks beautiful,
it's bathing the world,
the survivors are into this
new-- bright, new world,
and so on.
What also happens is
that that plasmosphere,
the big bubble, it
goes transparent.
It's no longer opaque.
This is why, for instance,
in the biblical account,
I think it's the fourth day--
the third day that the-- it's
mentioned that the stars
and the sun were made,
which is at odds
with the whole thing.
>>REGINA: Right.
It means that they were visible.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes, basically.
And of course, that concept
of looking out and seeing
the greater cosmos
was probably one
of the most profound moments.
>>REGINA: What an
altered reality.
Absolutely.
>>MCLACHLAN: I tend to
believe that this is really
what the Golden Age was about.
It was a time of-- a lot of
people think of the Golden Age
as a paradise of doing
nothing, an endless Sunday,
lazing around.
But basically, it seems
to me the Golden Age
was a period of great discovery.
And it was great discovery
because the environment
that Saturn originally had
provided an eternal harvest.
So people did not have to
worry about food, really.
There wasn't the preoccupation
with dealing with seasons.
>>REGINA: Right,
because there were none.
It was just consistent.
>>MCLACHLAN: There were none.
And this food would
just come forward.
And they didn't have that worry.
Quite literally, it was
there for the taking,
and they could get on with it.
And what could they get on with?
Measuring their newfound cosmos.
It's the measuring that
is what brings forth
civilization and
this Golden Age.
I personally am of
the opinion this
is when Atlantis
came into being.
The legends that
result go back to that.
Whatever the
situation, this idea
of being able to measure
one's environment
was profoundly affected by these
new stars that could be seen
and this one
particular star that
seemed to be revolving
around at distance.
In mythology, we
talk about the period
where there was the absent sun,
then there is the distant sun.
And it gets closer,
and it gets closer.
What they couldn't
have known at that time
was that that was what was
going to effectively push
Saturn from its now glorious
position, where it was
this radiant body, bathing the
Earth in this celestial light.
And from that, of course,
mythology gives us
the story of the regicide
practiced by Jupiter.
And when we take
Greek mythology,
it's Zeus, the son of
Kronos, who was Saturn,
coming forth and killing his
father and displacing him.
You can already start to see
where the malevolent influences
in human psychology--
>>REGINA: Well,
yes, and then we are
going to get into
cataclysmic eras.
And then, of course,
we have to look
at how people deal
with that information.
>>MCLACHLAN: Sure.
Well, one of the aspects that
the sun is bringing with it
that they could not have known,
one of the aspects that we can
look at is that it's
also bringing with it
a pretty large object called
Jupiter, the planet Jupiter.
And it's probably the planet
Jupiter, before the sun
itself, that Saturn first starts
to have serious problems with.
And it's that pressure of being
captured, as we view it today,
that eventually knocks
Saturn from its perch,
where mythology gives
the King in the North,
this splendid body-- it's
now a pinprick that can just
be picked out by
the naked eye today.
We can't see its
rings, yet the ancients
seemed to know about them.
The ancients knew
Jupiter had rings.
One of the great
opportunities missed
by people in Saturn theory was
they had it there before them.
The ancients had put
rings around Jupiter.
We could've--
The researchers
of that time could
have predicted rings would have
been found around Jupiter way
before they actually were.
How did the ancients know this?
It's because they were
in much closer proximity.
And they witnessed
these battles.
We haven't even gone
into the role of Mars,
the role of Venus, all
these things that--
>>REGINA: Because we
don't have I know.
And again, if people go to
the website and read this,
it's wonderfully chronological
in the way you've laid it out.
And the imagery,
again, is beautifully
supportive of it all.
So we're going to say
we're skipping parts,
because we want to
get into, ultimately,
how this influence of
Saturn being banished,
cataclysms that have
occurred, and so forth,
allow us to be manipulated
all the way to today.
>>MCLACHLAN: When we
get to that Golden Age,
we've got a period
of, I maintain,
great discovery,
people discovering
how to measure their
environment and so on.
When you get the
loss of Saturn, which
is a cata-- we'll skip
over the details of how
out happens-- but basically,
that whole alignment,
Earth, Saturn, Mars and Venus
were also included in that.
But it gets torn apart and
rearranged in such ways.
We get severed from Saturn,
ourselves, here on Earth.
And the catastrophic
rearrangement
produced such horrors,
such destruction
on this-- on the planet that
we never quite got over it.
It's that collective memory that
we were talking about earlier.
It comes from that
loss of Saturn.
Where we start to
get into the idea
that there is a
manipulation taking place
is that when you have the
survivors bringing their heads
up above the parapets after
this great destructive event,
there's obviously a yearning
to go back to that Golden Age.
For some people, they recognize
that the civilizing influence
of weights, measures,
all these things that
were born of Saturn
bursting forth into light,
is the key to maintaining
some kind of connection
with the Golden Age.
However, there are people who
just simply see the Golden Age
as a lifestyle that allows
them to live a certain way.
And without the eternal
harvest that Saturn
used to bring when it was
the God in the North--
without that, you
now have a period
of-- there's a
"waste not, want not"
mentality that has to be
born into the human species.
They have to prepare.
They have to learn
how to store food--
>>REGINA: To deal with the
cyclical nature of life.
>>MCLACHLAN: Of life as it is.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: You've
now got the sun--
>>REGINA: You have plenty,
then you have nothing.
So it's a completely
different way
of thinking than
always abundance.
>>MCLACHLAN: That's right.
That's exactly it.
It's just that some
people want that life
of absolute abundance.
And the penny drops with
them, that these other people
can be manipulated
in certain ways.
First, threats of violence
is the obvious one, tribe
against tribe, that sort of
thing, one dominating others.
But the idea of distorting
those measures taken out
of the Golden Age is
probably the most subtle form
of dominating people.
And this is where "Saturn
Death Cult" introduces the idea
that the distortion of the
memories of the Golden Age
are centered around the
productive capacity of people
and the measures used to measure
those productive capacities.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's get into
the emotional factors.
And let's get into
the notion of the gods
and outside entities and
punishment and so on so
we can see how, then, we started
succumbing to manipulations
that were now being carried
out by human beings that
have their own agenda of
trying to please the gods,
return to the Golden Age.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, you
certainly have a period
from, let's say, the fall of the
Golden Age, the fall of Saturn,
you certainly have
a period of time
where some researchers take
it up as recent as 600 BC,
where the rearrangement
of the planets
is a huge source of discomfort
for people on Earth.
You've got these objects
that are rearranging,
planetary-sized things, they're
colliding with each other out
in space, they're creating light
shows you wouldn't believe--
>>REGINA: Deluges, all of it.
>>MCLACHLAN: They're
coming close to us.
All these kinds of little
disasters and so on.
The priesthoods
exist to basically--
>>REGINA: Quell the
fear of the masses?
>>MCLACHLAN: --help people
understand these things--
exactly, yes-- while at the
same time searching for that way
to create a golden age.
That fear, that
doomsday anxiety,
means that those people
who have an understanding
of these things have an
advantage of knowledge
that the average
person ultimately
gives them control over.
>>REGINA: Because there's
just a vague fear,
and it's been passed off to
the activities of the gods,
punishment and so
forth, through what
has been developed by
the very ones in control.
>>MCLACHLAN: Sure.
And the priesthoods
become the means
by which-- they become
the means of defining
what was in the past, what is
happening, and so on like that.
It gives them immense power.
But there's always
this productive side
of things that needs
to be controlled.
And for those who would
wish to live a Golden Age
lifestyle at the
expense of others,
this is where this concept
of Saturn death cult,
this culture of
manipulating those fear
symbols, those things that
made people frightened,
comes into play, because what
it does, if you have control
of that, if you have those
symbols on your side,
they kind of justify your
position of authority.
And it's from there that we
move into the modern era.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about the priest kings
and then move into
more modern times.
>>MCLACHLAN: OK, well, I
have to say, because of--
>>REGINA: No, do.
>>MCLACHLAN: --who, you
know, who's-- you know--
in conjunction
with sort of having
this interview with and so on.
But the penny dropped for me
when I read Jay Weidner's work
on Stanley Kubrick.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah, I was
looking at priests kings.
I was looking at all these sorts
of ideas that came through.
But when Jay revealed-- I
never knew Kubrick, in "2001,"
had wanted to use Saturn
instead of Jupiter
as the destination in the film.
And once I got a
hold and started
to understand that Jay
was explaining "2001"
as a alchemical initiation
and that Kubrick seemed
to have some kind of
understanding of what
the elite of the
world had in terms
of alchemical knowledge,
this sort of thing--
when he linked it
to Saturn, that's
when the penny dropped for
me as to the modern age
and the priest kings,
where the links come
from those ancient
periods to today,
what drives the modern links.
>>REGINA: So once
the penny dropped,
talk about the path
it took you down.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
I had always been
aware that there was
something malevolent
in the central banking
model of finance,
because money being the
measure that it is, linked back
to what came out
of the Golden Age
and so on, debt-based
financing is
a false measure,
pure and simple.
It puts people into
debt through no laziness
on their part or whatever.
>>REGINA: It's a
false sense of value.
>>MCLACHLAN: A false
sense of value, and it
puts people into
debt with those who
have the power to
issue and coin money.
So I'd always been aware
of that side of things.
But a lot of conspiracy theory
with its ideas about its links
back into occult thinking, that
kind of thing, while some of it
is probably quite
valid, it didn't quite
take back to why this
is such an ancient dream
on the part of the
elites to do this.
>>REGINA: To return
to the Golden Age?
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
This was it.
>>REGINA: At the expense
of everyone else, though.
This is not holistic
thinking at this point.
>>MCLACHLAN: And of course,
what it was was once
I read Jay's understanding
of what Star-Child in "2001"
represented, that
evolutionary leap,
that's your Golden
Age mentality being
expressed in a different way.
That's the genius of
Kubrick, initiating us
into understanding
where it all comes from.
It's precisely this desire to
create a man-made golden age
for themselves, to recreate
this man-made golden age.
The trouble is, when Saturn
gave the power to the Earth
to keep us all in a golden
age, because it was glowing,
giving us this wonderful harvest
and so on, the elite today
don't have that.
All they can do is
harness the masses.
>>REGINA: I was going to say,
it's an inorganic thought,
totally lacking in wisdoms
because it's-- wisdom--
it's not in alignment
with what once was.
>>MCLACHLAN: And this is where
you get your transhumanist
agenda, you get your
desire to manipulate genes.
Basically, technology
becomes the mechanism
where they-- towards their
idea of heaven for themselves.
>>REGINA: Can we
hopscotch a little bit
through more modern
history and how
this started showing itself
and strengthening itself
to get exactly where you are
right now, even maybe starting
in the Roman times and
going through to today?
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, yeah.
In looking at the-- looking
at the financial model,
I identify the financial
system as something
that keeps being introduced over
a period of time in history.
I can count at least three
definite historical documented
times where we've been
brought to catastrophe
on a financial level that
has created some of the worst
moments in human history.
The original one, which is
what a lot of people refer
to as the Tower of Babel
moment-- or "Bay-bel,"
however people want
to pronounce that.
To me, that is your
first man-made disaster
in the act of basically
creating a economic system based
on debt-based financing.
>>REGINA: Which
is bound to fail.
>>MCLACHLAN: That collapsed.
Yeah.
It collapses in on itself.
It always gets so big, it
collapses in on itself.
It becomes confused, because
it's using false measures,
it's using false weights.
In Roman times, I would
identify the crisis of AD 33.
Tiberius was
emperor at the time.
Jesus Christ is said to have
been executed at that time.
What a lot of people
don't realize at that time
was Rome went through a
profound financial crisis, which
resulted in something
that is absolutely unique.
It's part of some
of the research
I'm doing at the moment.
Tiberius became the first ever
king leader, guy in charge,
to actually give away
his entire wealth
to save his people
from financial crisis.
It would be the equivalent
to the Queen of England
cashing in her $40 billion,
$400 billion, whatever she has--
>>REGINA: And distributing
it around the planet.
>>MCLACHLAN: and
distributing it around
to save us from the
current financial system.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>MCLACHLAN: That's
what Tiberius did.
>>REGINA: Well, and
even-- and some documents
argue that Jesus,
in his lifetime,
as an activist against the
bank and the banking industry
itself, that was partly
what would have gotten him
into that situation.
>>MCLACHLAN: I'm
convinced of it.
I'm absolutely convinced of it.
And research-- I won't go
into great depth and so on,
but there is a known story of
the house of Malchus, which
was a Tyrian purple dying
company in the city of Tyre
that essentially suffered
a default on loans that
precipitated, over
the next seven years,
the crisis leading up to AD 33.
That period where they
suffer their default
is in exact alignment
with what would
have been the Jewish
Jubilee release period.
>>REGINA: OK, talk about the
Jewish Jubilee release period.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, that's the
opposite of the Saturn death
cult financial model.
It's not exclusive to Jewish
history, Isrealitish history.
It's something that's practiced
throughout the Middle East.
>>REGINA: What's it
characterized by?
>>MCLACHLAN: It's
characterized by, simply,
forgiveness of all debt at
a particular period in time.
In the biblical law,
it's every 49 years.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>MCLACHLAN: It's actually every
seven years, you cancel debts.
But every 49 years, everything
goes back to its original set.
>>REGINA: Well, and even
today, in the Islamic model
of banking, there is no
interest charges-- flat fee
for a transaction and
no interest, right?
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, in
the Israelite system,
there certainly
wouldn't be any interest
charged within the system.
The Persians,
their version of it
was whenever a
king came to power,
whenever you got a change--
>>REGINA: Then
debt was absolved.
>>MCLACHLAN: So, yeah,
if he lasted five years,
on his death, Jubilee.
If the next one lasted 50 years,
that's when the next Jubilee.
>>REGINA: Wouldn't
it be nice if it
were the election of
each new president.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
And congressman.
>>REGINA: And congressman.
Better yet, every two years.
Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: Every time
we have an election.
>>REGINA: OK, now, that's
not happening anymore.
So let's talk about
what happened forward.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, you see,
it's-- cancellation of debt is
the absolute antithesis of
what is being trying to achieve
by a debt-based
financial system.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>MCLACHLAN: The
last thing they want
is to lose that power
of foreclosure over you
through what is
a Jubilee system.
This is what I would
call the Silver Age
of priesthood thinking, the
ones that really understood
the goodness of the Golden
Age-- what was right,
how to be productive,
how money should be
a tool for the
community as a whole,
rather than the god-given
right of a minority to control.
>>REGINA: So maybe more the
mimicry of the Golden Age
rather than the elite
trying to recreate, falsely,
a golden age.
That would be more accurate.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well, yes, because
all they're simply doing
is trying to accumulate
the resources
under their own
control, exclusively
under their own control.
And they've worked out that
financial debt is simply
the most ingenious mechanism
that you could use.
>>REGINA: For control
over a species.
>>MCLACHLAN: But you've got
these Silver Age priesthoods
and these ideas that
have been distorted,
that if you look
back far enough--
and it's there in
every major religion--
and that is debt forgiveness.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: It's there.
>>REGINA: There's
no forgiveness now.
>>MCLACHLAN: There's
no forgiveness.
They couldn't-- everybody knows
that the current situation
we're in, just cancel it.
>>REGINA: Cancel
every-- exactly.
>>MCLACHLAN: Reset.
To use the kids'
term today, reset it,
and you've got a solution.
But these people will
tell you, no, it'll
be chaos and so on like that.
>>REGINA: No.
>>MCLACHLAN: In the
times, it wasn't.
But to move on from
what happened in Rome,
Tiberius kind of
saved it for them.
And it was a deadly
period of time.
But the chaos that
followed is directly
linked into the
absolute shocking period
of the destruction of
the temple in Jerusalem,
which had literally become
a central bank at that time.
This was really
what the-- what's
behind the story of Christ
in the temple and so on.
And we know that
there was a genocide.
The figures were
astounding for the period
of what happened in that
period between 70 AD and 140 AD
at that time.
The next worst period of time
is when the super companies
became super banks
in the Middle Ages.
You've got the Bardis, Peruzzis,
and the Florentine banking
houses.
And they basically created
a derivative system,
very similar to
what we have today.
>>REGINA: Talk about
false measures.
>>MCLACHLAN: That
blew up on them.
>>REGINA: No one
can even define it.
But go ahead.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
you see, that blew up
on them, which precipitated
a famine, which destroyed
the immune system of
the peoples of Europe
just in time for this
Black Death to come along.
I tell you, if people want
to know an apocalyptic time
or anything, the 1340s
is, without a doubt,
to date, the worst
period in history
that any people have
ever gone through.
>>REGINA: And it was
following starvation.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
And the thing is, we forget.
We think of it like
a European thing.
The Chinese were
wiped out by it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: I don't
know what happened
if they had it in Mesoamerica.
>>REGINA: So where there's
a lack of productivity
or financial ruination,
you have starvation,
you have the weakening
of immune systems,
and organisms can
simply flourish.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
And when you get
these situations,
there's a case study, I think
it's the island of Guernsey,
or it's the island of Jersey
in the English Channel.
After the Napoleonic Wars, they
were in the same situation.
They'd been ravaged by war.
But they had all
these strong lads
that came back from the wars.
And they had all these merchants
whose shops were falling down.
And nothing was getting done
because the Bank of England
wouldn't put any
money into the place.
So somebody had the
bright idea of just,
we'll just create our own money.
>>REGINA: Right.
I remember this.
It's really interesting.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yes.
And they did this.
And suddenly, they
had an economy going.
And it was quite a few
years later before the Bank
of England-- it got big
enough to be noticed--
and it's like you can't do that.
Why can't you do it?
>>REGINA: Yes, and there were
some very interesting things
that came out of that, because
the size of the people,
the people started
strengthening,
their bone structures
strengthened.
>>MCLACHLAN: Health.
>>REGINA: They started gaining
in height again and health.
And then it started
declining again.
And it really wasn't
until, I think,
very recently that the body
size of the average Brit
reached what it was
in that day, where
they created their own
currency and had plenty.
This is hundreds of
years before they--
>>MCLACHLAN: Because
you're not limited,
and you're not under that stress
of being the guy caught short
for-- I just put it
like, if there's $10,
and you're meant
to pay back $11,
and the 11th dollar
doesn't exist,
that stress that
everybody's trying
to find that 11th dollar,
it tears societies apart.
You don't even have
to talk about wars.
It's what happens in families.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yeah, families, friendships.
Let's move forward from the
Middle Ages, then, to today.
And this is called the
"Saturn Death Cult."
That's pretty cryptic.
So let's talk about why.
We only have a few minutes left.
Believe it or not, we have
blown through almost an hour.
>>MCLACHLAN: Blown through.
Right.
I call it "The
Saturn Death Cult"
because, quite simply, there is,
in this culture, particularly
in this finance culture-- and
what we've probably not told--
explained to everybody is that
these archetypes that come out
of the doomsday event, when
Saturn fell, the Golden Age,
they're stamped all over
our financial system,
our corporate people,
in the form of symbols.
If you go into the
website, I give examples.
The most obvious one
is the all-seeing eye--
>>REGINA: Yes.
Great imagery here.
>>MCLACHLAN: --all
that kind of stuff.
We all know it.
We know where it's from.
When we understand
where it comes
from on a cosmological
basis, it frees you
from thinking these guys, gee,
must be somehow in charge,
because it gives them
some kind of authority.
But why else would they
stamp that Saturn symbolism
onto things like
the US dollar bill?
It's everywhere.
You see it in television
shows; it pops through.
The reason I call
it a death cult
is because it is
precisely geared
to leaching the human species
of all its productive capacity
to the point of the species
almost coming to its end.
I also am of the opinion that
there is actually a program
to cull the human species to
a level that can be controlled
once the technology is in
place that they've aimed for,
for the elite to hold control.
A rewilding of the planet
is supposed to take place.
The population reduced down to--
>>REGINA: Right.
We've heard much of this
in some of our interviews.
>>MCLACHLAN: 2
billion, 500 million.
>>REGINA: 500 million, yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: These
sorts of numbers,
it's not as if they
hide this stuff in terms
of what they would
like to do and such.
>>REGINA: So that might be
what they want, but now let's
switch it to what
our agenda can be,
because we don't
have to buy this.
>>MCLACHLAN: No.
And one of the
things in studying
these collapses of
financial models
is that, rather than going
out and fighting these guys
on the front lines with
violence or whatever,
we can just simply let their
system implode if we all
gather enough knowledge
in how to present
an alternative way of going
about things to the one that
is existing at the moment.
In my opinion,
they're in a panic.
They're trying to
get stuff, they're
accelerating their
programs, they
know it's reaching that
critical mass stage.
It's starting to implode.
When it does, we
need people who know
how to create monetary
systems that are not debt--
>>REGINA: Alternative
systems, yes.
>>MCLACHLAN: --that
are debt-free,
that work in that sense.
And in terms of
that, we need people
who understand the true
essence of the Golden Age,
as Silver Age priesthoods
tried to bring down to us.
That which was
written in stone is
something we should
all be looking
back to with fresh eyes.
>>REGINA: So tell us what
was written in stone.
>>MCLACHLAN: Well,
basically, the ability
to interact with
each other and trust
that the mechanisms
that we use in defining
our actions between each other
are viewed the same everywhere.
It comes back to
weights and measures.
>>REGINA: So there's some common
understanding, common good.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
Everybody's going to have a
different spiritual level.
I hear people with spiritual
levels I can't even comprehend.
I have my own sort of level,
which is pretty down to earth,
materialistic, I guess,
in some people's eyes.
What I need to know,
though, is that when
I'm dealing with somebody on
a different spiritual level,
that we can trust what it is
that defines our interactions.
At the moment, when you're
dealing with the elite, when
you're dealing with people
in position of power,
there is that horrible
understanding that we all have
that the playing
field's not level.
And in my opinion, it
all comes back down
to the issuance of
debt-based money.
You start with that,
you clean that up.
The rest of it--
>>REGINA: And there are
many iterations of it,
going into barter
and time banking.
And once systems-- that
old debt-based system
starts collapsing, we're
a resourceful bunch.
There's a lot we can do
to continue on and create
something new.
>>MCLACHLAN:
Hopefully, we'll be so
horrified by the chaos these
people cause in their collapse
that we will identify that it
is actually their "one rule
for them, one rule for
us" approach to setting up
the world system, however
it is, from local, almost,
if you want to,
to galactic level.
We'll be so horrified
with the inequality.
There's always going to be
inequality between somebody's
going to be more productive
than somebody else and all
this sort of stuff.
Where we can't have
inequality is in the laws
that we use to govern
our relationships.
They have to be
trusted to be equal.
>>REGINA: Has to
be a common good.
>>MCLACHLAN: Yeah.
And I think that's where we can
look back to the Golden Age.
We can look back to true, what
you might call Saturn worship,
if you want to do it that way.
Some people do it
through Christian thing,
Muslim, Buddhist, other people
have what we would call pagan.
>>REGINA: At this
point, we're not
aligning Saturn with
Lucifer or anything else.
This is not what's happening.
>>MCLACHLAN: No, no, no.
It's just looking back--
>>REGINA: A time of abundance.
>>MCLACHLAN: --yeah, when
those religions preached
the idea of equality
in the judgments
that we use to define how
we deal with each other.
>>REGINA: On that, we-- I can't
believe an hour has passed,
and it seems like we've
only scratched the surface.
But again, there's a resource.
Thank you so much
for your time, Troy.
>>MCLACHLAN: Oh,
look, thank you.
Thanks so much.
>>REGINA: Again, you can
go to Troy's website,
saturndeathcult.com, and it
perfectly lays this story out,
well illustrated and
well worth the time.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
at Gaiam TV in London.
[MUSIC PLAYING]